---
layout: post
title:  "[sequence-modeling] Conditional Random Fields"
mathjax: true
date:   2018-03-06 15:36:27
categories: advanced-machine-learning
author: abhoi
---

<p align='justify'>Let's explore Conditional Random Fields, how they are different from Markov Random Fields, how they can be useful for sequence based classifications (POS tagging among other things), how to train them, and how to perform inference on them.</p>

A **conditional random field** or **CRF** is a **Markov Random Field** where all the clique potentials are conditioned on input features:

$$p(\textbf{y}|\textbf{x, w}) = \frac{1}{Z(\textbf{x, w})}\prod_{c} \psi_{c}(\textbf{y}_{c}|\textbf{x, w})$$

A CRF is basically a **structured ouput** extension of **logistic regression**. We can assume a log-linear representation of the potentials:

$$\psi_{c}(\textbf{y}_{c}|\textbf{x, w}) = exp(\textbf{w}_{c}^{T} \phi(\textbf{x, }\textbf{y}_{c}))$$

<p align='justify'>CRFs are more efficient than generative classifiers because they don't waste resources modeling things that they always observe. They only focus on the distribution of labels given data. This leads to the potentials of the model be data-dependent. If two nodes <i>x</i> and <i>y</i> are discontinuous, then we can "turn off" or set the transition potential to zero. [1]</p>

We can also represent CRFs as:

$$p(\textbf{y}|X) = \frac{1}{Z_X}\textrm{exp}\left (\sum_{s=1}^{m} \left \langle \textbf{w}_{y_{s}}, \textbf{x}_{s} \right \rangle + \sum_{s=1}^{m-1}T_{y_{s},y_{s+1}}\right)$$

$$Z_X = \sum_{\mathbf{\hat{y}} \in \mathcal{Y}^{m}}^{ } \textrm{exp}\left (\sum_{s=1}^{m} \left \langle \textbf{w}_{\hat{y}_{s}}, \textbf{x}_{s} \right \rangle + \sum_{s=1}^{m-1}T_{\hat{y}_{s},\hat{y}_{s+1}}\right )$$

CRFs are extremely powerful for sequence labelling and is highly used in applications such as part-of-speech tagging, optical character recognition, and more.

More to come...

**References**:

[1] Murphy, Kevin P. "Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective. Adaptive Computation and Machine Learning." (2012).
